# Dashboard of the Housing Market in the North of the Netherlands

Welcome to the dashboard of the housing market is shrinking and growing regions in the Northern Netherlands. The dashboard is built by students from the University of Groningen in collaboration with Statistics Netherlands (CBS). The Northern Netherlands has regions that undergo shrinkage whereas other regions are growing slightly or more extreme. This dashboard is built to provide better insight in the indicators that are relevant for the population dynamics of regions. 

The dashboard shows a total of 6 indicators which are divided into two different categories: registered and subjective indicators. The registered indicators are visualized with the help of public CBS data that is provided on Statline and is based on registered data. The three registered indicators are housing stock, housing price and population dynamics. The data is visualized on municipality level for the years 2015-2019. The subjective indicators are based on the Woon Onderzoek 2018 (Residence Investigation 2018). Woon Onderzoek 2018 is a national questionnaire with subjective questions filled in by a representative amount of Dutch inhabitants. The three subjective indicators are satisfaction with the region, willingness to move and the vacancy rate in the region. The data is visualized on COROP region level, that is a group of adjacent municipalities, for the year 2018. The dataset was retrieved from DANS (Data Archiving and Networked Services)

An accountability section is also available on the dashboard. The accountability section contains a summary of the provided information, informatiob about the used data sets, information about the handling of data from merged municipalities and information about the legal issues. Besides the accountability section, there is a download section.  This section contains links for downloading the final report that serves as an addition to the dashboard.
